He said, “If you will diligently listen to the voice of the Lord your God, and do that which is right in his eyes, and give ear to his commandments and keep all his statutes, I will put none of the diseases on you that I put on the Egyptians, for I am the Lord, your healer.”
~ Exodus 15:26
Worship the LORD your God, and His blessing will be on your food and water. I will take away sickness from among you.
~ Exodus 23:25
The Lord will keep you free from every disease. He will not inflict on you the horrible diseases you knew in Egypt.
~ Deuteronomy 7:15
“See now that I, even I, am he, and there is no god beside me; I kill and I make alive; I wound and I heal; and there is none that can deliver out of my hand.
~ Deuteronomy 32:39
If my people who are called by my name humble themselves, and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and heal their land.
~ 2 Chronicles 7:14
Have compassion on me, LORD, for I am weak. Heal me, LORD, for my bones are in agony.
~ Psalm 6:2
For the LORD protects the bones of the righteous; not one of them is broken!
~ Psalm 34:20
The LORD will sustain him upon his sickbed; In his illness, You restore him to health.
~ Psalm 41:3
As for me, I said, “O Lord, be gracious to me; heal me, for I have sinned against you!”
~ Psalm 41:4
Praise the Lord, my soul; all my inmost being, praise his holy name. Praise the Lord, my soul, and forget not all his benefits—who forgives all your sins and heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from the pit and crowns you with love and compassion, who satisfies your desires with good thing, so that your youth is renewed like the eagle's.
~ Psalm 103:1-5
He sent out His word and healed them, and delivered them from their destruction.
~ Psalm 107:20
He heals the brokenhearted and binds up their wounds.
~ Psalm 147:3
Gracious words are like a honeycomb, sweetness to the soul and health to the body.
~ Proverbs 16:24
My son, be attentive to my words; incline your ear to my sayings. Let them not escape from your sight; keep them within your heart. For they are life to those who find them, and healing to all their flesh.
~ Proverbs 4:20-22
A joyful heart is good medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones.
~ Proverbs 17:22
For everything there is a season, and a time for every matter under heaven: a time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up what is planted; a time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up.
~ Ecclesiastes 3:1-3
And the Lord will strike Egypt, striking and healing, and they will return to the Lord, and he will listen to their pleas for mercy and heal them.
~ Isaiah 19:22
Lord, your discipline is good, for it leads to life and health. You restore my health and allow me to live!
~ Isaiah 38:16
But He was pierced for our transgressions, He was crushed for our iniquities; the punishment that brought us peace was on Him, and by His wounds we are healed.
~ Isaiah 53:5
‘I have seen what they do, but I will heal them anyway! I will lead them. I will comfort those who mourn, bringing words of praise to their lips. May they have abundant peace, both near and far,' says the Lord, who heals them.
~ Isaiah 57: 18-19
Then your light will break forth like the dawn, and your healing will quickly appear; then your righteousness will go before you, and the glory of the LORD will be your rear guard.
~ Isaiah 58:8
Heal me, O Lord, and I shall be healed; save me, and I shall be saved, for you are my praise.
~ Jeremiah 17:14
For I will restore health to you, and your wounds I will heal, declares the Lord.
~ Jeremiah 30:17
Behold, I will bring to it health and healing, and I will heal them and reveal to them abundance of prosperity and security.
~ Jeremiah 33:6
And he went throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction among the people.
New Testament Healing Scripture
~ Matthew 4:23
‭‭And He called to Him His twelve disciples and gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal every disease and every affliction.
~ Matthew 10:1
Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse those who have leprosy, drive out demons. Freely you have received; freely give.
~ Matthew 10:8
It is not the healthy who need a doctor, but the sick. I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners.
~ Mark 2:17
He [Jesus] said to her, “Daughter, your faith has healed you. Go in peace and be freed from your suffering.”
~ Mark 5:34
And the power of the Lord was with him to heal.
~ Luke 5:17
Heal the sick in it and say to them, ‘The kingdom of God has come near to you.
~ Luke 10:9
AndHhe laid his hands on her, and immediately she was made straight, and she glorified God.
~ Luke 13:13
But they remained silent. Then He took him and healed him and sent him away.
~ Luke 14:4
“He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart, lest they see with their eyes, and understand with their heart, and turn, and I would heal them.
~ John 12:40
While you stretch out your hand to heal, and signs and wonders are performed through the name of your holy servant Jesus.
~ Acts 4:30
And Peter said to him, “Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you; rise and make your bed.” And immediately he rose.
~ Acts 9:34
How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power. He went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him.
~ Acts 10:38
Our bodies are buried in brokenness, but they will be raised in glory. They are buried in weakness, but they will be raised in strength.
~ 1 Corinthians 15:43
Is anyone among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up.
~ James 5:14-15
Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much.
~ James 5:16
He personally bore our sins in His [own] body on the tree [as on an altar and offered Himself on it], that we might die (cease to exist) to sin and live to righteousness. By His wounds you have been healed.
~ 1 Peter‬ ‭2:24‬
Dear friend, I pray that you may enjoy good health and that all may go well with you, even as your soul is getting along well.
~ 3 John 1:2